[AUDIO LOGO]
[INTRO MUSIC]
>> Where ancient wisdom and
modern research converge,
Divine Science emerges.
[JET ROARING]
>> One time we had a small plane
go down somewhere in Africa.
And we were not able to
find it by surveillance.
So the director of the CIA heard
about a woman in California
that was a medium or something.
I don't know the title for.
And she gave him the
latitude and longitude
of the plane's whereabouts.
We located the plane
where she said it was.
And that's the only
time that I have ever
experienced something
that was inexplicable
while I was present.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Could the human mind
access information
across time and space
without technology
and without physical contact?
In the early 1970s, the US
government quietly funded
a classified
program to find out.
At Stanford Research Institute,
physicist Russell Targ
and Harold Puthoff conducted
controlled experiments
into what became known
as remote viewing.
Their findings caught the
attention of the CIA and led
to Project Stargate, a 20-year
military-backed investigation,
into the mind's potential
for intelligence gathering.
>>DEAN RADIN: The Stargate
Project was one of many
different code names for a
20-year project that involved
classified program
of psychic espionage.
>>JOSEPH MCMONEAGLE:
Project Stargate
was the use of
psychics in the Army
to support all of the
major intelligence agencies
in America, with psychics
producing intelligence
against our enemies
in the field.
>>RADIN: This started in
1972 and went through 1995.
The reason it came about is
because the US government
had been hearing reports at
the time from the Soviet Union
that the Soviets
were very interested
in parapsychological
phenomena, including
the possibility of using remote
viewing to capture our secrets.
>>RUSSELL TARG: The CIA is
very interested in the spying
of all kinds.
So I came to them
with the idea that we
had begun to explore this
remote viewing business where
a person can quiet their mind
and see into the distance
and describe what was there.
>>RADIN: We were able to find
pretty quickly in the beginning
of that program that remote
viewing was a real thing,
that essentially
clairvoyance was real,
and you could, in
fact, gain information
from a distance of almost any
type that you can imagine.
And it provided an additional
piece of information
that was useful to
intelligence analysts.
>>MCMONEAGLE: I was the first
person selected for the Stargate
program.
I was the only person who spent
the entire time it existed
in the Stargate program.
When I was recruited, I was
given the designation 001.
>>RADIN: I was there for one
year out of the 22 years.
My role was partially
about threat analysis,
that we would hear
that somebody in China
or somebody in the Soviet Union
at the time or somewhere else
was doing something psychic,
which might be a threat.
>>MCMONEAGLE: When they
started our project,
it turned out that it was
so good, the results, we
got tasking immediately to
counter what was going on.
So we were being tasked
to target our enemies.
And the results were effective.
So many of the agencies
we were supporting
started giving us tasking.
And it just took off from there.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Remote viewing is not about
seeing in the conventional
sense.
It's about sensing
across distance and time.
At Stanford Research
Institute, scientists
developed a method to do just
that, teaching participants
to still the mind, notice
subtle impressions,
and report raw perceptions,
not guesses or logic
but sketches, sensations,
and fragments of awareness.
This became the blueprint
for remote viewing,
a structured practice grounded
in observation and repeatable
by design.
>>TARG: I have this protocol.
I will say to the
person, quiet your mind.
And tell me about
the surprising images
that show up in your awareness.
And draw me a picture,
do the magic words.
I don't say, where
do they go to hide?
I don't say, what
does it look like?
I ask them, tell me what
you're experiencing.
What are the surprising images?
And they will then draw
where the person is hiding
or where the
submarine is sailing
or what's going
on Jupiter's moon.
>>RADIN: You would
think that somebody
would say, well, tell
me what's going on,
and give them some
details about it.
And you never want to
do that because it's
called front loading.
That was the jargon.
The front loading was
that you would tell them.
And then they'd start
fantasizing about that.
>>MCMONEAGLE: When a remote
viewer learns to remote view,
the process becomes habitual.
It becomes a habit.
So Dr. May, who I worked
with many, many years
doing remote viewing
studies, he may come up to me
on a Friday night.
And he may say, look, you
need to get a lot of rest
this weekend because
Monday morning we're
going to do a series of
five remote viewings.
And they're really
important or critical.
As soon as he says that, I'm
already collecting the data.
It's an automatic.
I can't stop myself
from doing that.
So by Monday, I have
all the answers.
>> To ensure accuracy,
researchers developed strict
controls.
In double-blind experiments,
neither the viewer
nor the facilitator
knew the target.
Information was often
sealed in envelopes
or linked only to
random coordinates.
Yet, even under
these conditions,
remote viewers produced
remarkably accurate
descriptions, verified
in published studies
across peer-reviewed
scientific journals.
>>RADIN: The method that was
developed in the remote viewing
training method was
that we were going
to give you a symbol that stands
for the thing that we want,
like a six-digit number.
And all we give you is
the six-digit number.
Well, we know what that means.
But you don't.
So you're blind to
what the number is.
And that's important
because it means
if you're psychically
hot that day,
you can use that as a
kind of an anchor for,
oh, in psychic space,
this thing means that.
And somehow that works.
>>MCMONEAGLE: While I was
assigned to the Stargate
Project, all of the things I
was doing was mostly collection.
Collection was answering
the taskings, which
were all double-blind tasking.
So I would go into a room.
And I would do a
remote viewing and talk
about what was coming into my
head in reference to whatever
the tasking was in a
double-wrapped envelope that
would be laying on a table.
I usually was working with
a monitor or the training
officer, who also had no idea
what was in the envelope.
>>URI GELLER: The experiments
in Stanford Research Institute,
conducted by these scientists
for the CIA and the American
Defense Department,
they were all
done under laboratory-controlled
conditions.
They built a Faraday cage.
And I sat in this shielded room.
And drawings were
done outside the room
or in houses of
the experimenters.
And I was not allowed
to touch them.
And I had to sit in that
room with a marker and paper
and duplicate the drawings
that were inside the sealed
envelopes.
>>TARG: And as they hurry,
I've got a picture, a line
drawing of something or other.
I don't know what it is.
Nobody knows what it is
because the envelope has not
been opened.
Why don't you describe
what I have in my envelope?
>>GELLER: And I
was 100% correct.
Some drawings where
millimetrically the same size.
One of the most complicated,
one was a bunch of grapes.
They drew 24 grapes.
I got 24 grapes.
If you measure the size of
the grape, it's the same size.
It's really incredible.
>>TARG: And we did a
dozen or so experiments
like that, which we
published in Nature magazine.
And Geller did extremely
well, surprisingly well,
in these double-blind
experiments.
>>RADIN: Other methods
used in laboratories,
called the Outbounder
experiments, where we would say,
we're going to take
one of your friends
to a randomly selected spot.
And we want you to describe
what they're experiencing now,
where they are or
what they're looking
at, what their emotions
are, the whole thing.
And this is partially where
the idea of remote viewing
came from.
You're viewing that
space through their eyes.
You're remote viewing them.
And then the remote person
will take pictures and record
sketches and things
about that place.
And now, a judge is shown
five or six images of places.
And now, given the transcript
of where the person actually was
and what the remote
viewer said and say,
well, can you
match up these two,
match what the
remote viewer said
versus these potential places
that they were brought to?
And so in the lab, you'd end
up with a hit rate of, say,
1 in 5, 20% hit rate if there
were five possible targets.
And so those kind of
types of experiments
were very, very successful.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Some of the most compelling
evidence for remote viewing
comes not from laboratories but
from real-world intelligence
operations.
Though many of these
cases remain classified,
declassified reports confirm
that remote viewers provided
accurate descriptions
of enemy facilities,
advanced technologies,
and secret operations,
often years before confirmation
through conventional means.
>>GELLER: The remote viewing
that I've done for secret
services--
I don't really call
it remote viewing.
I call it ESP, telepathy,
extrasensory perception,
mind reading.
And the missions I
was asked to do--
I remember when the FBI
had a problem in locating
a serial killer in New York.
His name was David
Berkowitz, the Son of Sam.
They put out a map on an easel.
I ran my hand over the map.
And I pointed at a house
in Yonkers, New York.
That's where David
Berkowitz was arrested.
>>TARG: When I was working
at SRI for the CIA,
they said, well, why don't we
see if you can look into a place
that we have a lot of
interest in and can't get to?
So they gave me a slip
of paper, an envelope.
And I went with Pat Price,
went up to a shielded room.
The price said, well,
I'm laying on the top
of a three-story building.
Sun feels good on my body.
And the giant crane rolling
back and forth over me
has four wheels on either
side of the railroad tracks.
And he drew a
picture of the crane,
which is now a famous
early remote viewing hit.
And Price said, well, I don't
know what they're making.
But I see men in
white lab coats.
They're speaking
another language.
They're trying to weld
together a giant steel
sphere out of gauze which
are orange peel slices.
They're trying to weld together
these orange peel slices.
And I'll draw those for you.
And we then show
those to the CIA
and say, well, that's
very interesting.
But we don't know
anything about it.
Two years after his
description, the facility
was taken down in
Soviet Siberia.
And we could see the 60-foot
sphere having been rolled out
of the building.
And you can see men
standing on the sphere,
polishing up the gores,
just as Price had described.
So we know for a fact that Price
was able to describe these steel
spheres as they were in Soviet
Siberia 6,000 miles away.
>>MCMONEAGLE: Most
significant target
I ever did for any of the
intelligence agencies--
they had a building north of
the Arctic Circle in Russia.
It was on a peninsula.
And it was next to a harbor.
But it was not
connected to the harbor.
It was so huge, you could
put the Mall of the Americas
in Minneapolis inside.
And it wouldn't touch anything.
And they had been watching this
building for like five years.
They didn't know what
was going on in there.
They had a lot of conjecture.
But they really wanted to know.
And nobody could figure it out.
And so they passed
it to us as a target.
>>RADIN: One of the things
that Joe was able to do
is he was asked to
look at a building that
was near a channel of water
but not connected to it.
Like, what are they
doing in that building?
Because that's like a
shipyard or something.
So he psychically looks
into the building.
And he sees the
largest submarine
that anybody had ever seen.
>>MCMONEAGLE: It
was a submarine that
was like two submarines
put together this way.
And nobody would ever
build a submarine
this way because it
would be crushed if it
went below a certain depth.
And it had 24 launch tubes.
And they were slanted, which
increased the threat because it
could now launch on the move.
And it didn't have to
stop the launch, which
made the old subs vulnerable.
>>RADIN: And so he describes
it and says, well, it looks
that there's tubes on the top.
There's turrets where
things can open up.
And it could shoot
rockets and so on.
And so this is reported back to
the National Security Council.
And they say, that's ridiculous.
There's nothing like that.
No one's ever reported it.
It's too big to be a submarine.
>>MCMONEAGLE: The senior analyst
there was the top Soviet analyst
from the CIA at the time.
His name was Robert Gates.
And Robert Gates took one
look at the remote viewing
and sent it back.
And there was a note on
top from Robert Gates.
And what it said was total
complete fantasy, RG.
And he rejected it.
And I said, well, wait a minute.
And I put a note on top.
And I said, fantasy will
be launched in 112 days, J.
>>RADIN: He then curious--
Joe was curious about, well,
this is inside a building.
It's not even near any water.
So what are they
going to do with it?
So he looks into the future--
starts looking into the
future to find out, well,
what's going to happen
with this thing?
What he sees in the future is
they build a channel of water
that leads out into
the ocean because they
want the submarine to
stay underneath that
so the satellites can't see
it come out of the building.
It has to be deep enough
to go out to the water.
So that's what he sees.
He reports that back
and say, that's stupid.
Nobody's going to build another
water channel for this thing
to go out there.
>>MCMONEAGLE: 114 days went by.
And they got the photographs in.
And it was a big section of
wall of the building torn out
and a channel cut to the harbor.
And two big icebreakers
were sitting there.
And all the ice in the
harbor was broken up.
And there was a Soviet
aircraft carrier
parked there to block
the view of the harbor.
And tied to its side was a
brand new TK089 typhoon class
submarine.
>>RADIN: Which was the
largest submarine ever built
and, in fact, had the right
kind of openings at the top
that would shoot
missiles, a whole bunch
of them, if they wanted to.
>>MCMONEAGLE: Any
one of those subs
could have stood off
in New York 100 miles
and eradicated
America in 18 minutes.
And they collected
more intelligence
on that one submarine
in four days
than the entire Soviet
subpac in history.
Without the remote viewing,
we would have never known
about them at all.
>>RADIN: Case after
case of remote viewing,
said Joe and other people, had
done, which basically proved,
which is a pretty strong word
in the scientific world--
it proved that this
was actually possible.
You could actually do this.
That made my head explode.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Remote viewing appears to
stretch the boundaries of space
and time.
In controlled experiments,
viewers have accurately
described past events and
glimpsed futures not yet
unfolded.
This challenges our
assumptions about linear time
and raises a deeper question.
Could consciousness be
navigating an information field
beyond our dimensional reality?
>>MCMONEAGLE: It was clear to
me 50 years ago that time is
a figment of our imagination.
We can learn to travel in time.
From a remote viewing
standpoint, it's easy.
If you were to go back in
time, it's still there.
What happened 50
years ago was sitting
there exactly as it happened.
>>RADIN: There are at
least a dozen theories
about how all of this works.
Some of them involve
multi-dimensional descriptions
of reality.
If we think that we're locked
into three dimensions of space
and one dimensions of
time, these phenomena
don't work very well.
We don't understand
how that works.
There are theories based
on quantum mechanics
where we take
advantage of things
like quantum
entanglement, which shows
that things can be connected
through space and time
at a distance.
>>TARG: There will
always be a path
through the complex spacetime.
There'll be a path of zero
distance that connects
any points in the spacetime.
The idea that your consciousness
can be in contact with something
that's physically far away
would be a non-local connection.
Non-local connection is a bona
fide idea in modern physics.
Three Nobel prizes were
just awarded for that.
>>RADIN: As we develop physics
further and further along,
I think we'll find
it more and more
compatible to psychic
phenomena because we
have very high confidence
that the phenomena are real,
the experiences are real.
It's still difficult to account
for in an easy way with existing
physics.
>> Scientific research suggests
that remote viewing is not
limited to a select few.
It is a skill that
can be developed.
Studies indicate that
while some individuals may
show natural aptitude,
training in focused attention,
mental quieting, and structured
perception techniques
can significantly
enhance performance.
>>TARG: I can't remember an
instance of somebody coming
into the laboratory
with an interest
in learning how to do remote
viewing and not be successful.
When I was working
at SRI for the CIA,
one of the most remarkable
things I experienced
was where we were looking for
how Puthoff was on vacation
somewhere in South America.
I described what I saw.
And what I saw was the
island airport with ocean
at the end of the runway,
grass on the right,
an airport building on the left.
And I drew that as best I could.
And it turned out that
that's just where he was.
And my drawing was
at least as sharp
as anything we had ever seen
from one of our famous psychics.
So it gave me the idea
that remote viewing
must be so easy that even
a scientist can do it.
>>RADIN: Remote viewing
as a whole, as a method,
is extremely successful
in showing that people who
are good at this,
naturally or trained,
that it's an actual method.
I mean, it's a method that you
can use to gain information.
>>MCMONEAGLE: We're given
more than our senses.
We're given this
whole magical ability,
that the only way it grows
in us is if we allow it to.
When you have these feelings,
these senses, pay attention.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> If remote viewing is not
only real but learnable,
then what does that reveal
about human potential?
Beyond intelligence
gathering or lab results,
this ability points to
something far more profound
that consciousness itself
may be wired for connection
across vast distances.
And as more people begin
to explore this frontier,
we may find that the
boundaries of perception
are far more flexible
than we ever believed.
>>MCMONEAGLE: It makes
me tired that people
want to judge things that they
don't know anything about.
They won't even sit down
and read the science.
There's 1.8 million words of
science published right now
on remote viewing.
Something's going on there.
And we really need
to study that.
>>GELLER: The mind
is so powerful.
And this is why intuitives
are being employed today
by secret services
around the world.
Today and in the future, there
will always be the human factor.
There will always
be those who can
bring in information without
sophistication of technology.
They spy through the mind.
>>MCMONEAGLE: There are concepts
that we could be targeting right
now for the cure of cancer.
We could be targeting new
energy systems out of nothing.
There are ways of dealing
with problems right now
for feeding the hungry.
All we need to do is target
them with remote viewing.
>>TARG: Non-local
perception is available
as a normal human ability.
You already have the ability
to do remote viewing.
And I'm here today to tell
you to quiet your mind
and describe what you're going
to experience in the future.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Remote viewing invites
us to rethink the limits
of perception.
If consciousness truly
reaches beyond time and space,
then perhaps the greatest
frontier isn't out there.
It's within us.
Join us for more episodes
on Divine Science,
where we explore the
crossroads of modern research
and ancient wisdom.